K-RAZY SHOOT-OUT - FULL MANUAL TEXT

PAGE 1
K-RAZY
By K-BYTE™
For the Atari 5200.
For one player.
GAME PLAY INSTRUCTIONS
SHOOT-OUT
SCORE 20
TIM 192.20
MCMLXXXIII CBS Toys, A Division of CBS Inc.
Atari, Trak-Ball™ and 5200™ are trademarks of Atari, Inc.
CBS Electronics

PAGE 2
SETTING UP YOUR VIDEO CONSOLE
1. Hook up your video game system, following manufacturer's instructions.
2. With the power OFF, plug in the video game cartridge.
3. Turn power ON. If no image appears, check the connection of your game system to the TV, then repeat steps 1-3.
4. Plug a 5200™ Controller firmly into controller jack 1.*
5. To start the game, press one of the two bottom trigger buttons on the sides of the controller.
You may then begin your attempt to escape from Level 1.
*This game is Trak-Ball™ compatible.
Program 1983 Kay Enterprises Co.
Program created by Dr. Keith Dreyer and Torre Meede.
Programmed for CBS Electronics by Kay Enterprises Co., Troy, Michigan.
Note: Never remove your video game cartridge from the console unless the power is turned OFF.

PAGE 3
Dangerous Alien Droids have your team of Space Commanders trapped within their deadly Control Sectors.
If your guys are going to survive, they'll have to shoot it out with the Droids themselves!
But every Sector is different, and Droids can be lurking behind any corner!
And if you don't zap all of them before making a dash to the exit, you'll be trapped on that level forever and never get a promotion in rank!
Oh, what one must do to impress the big-shots!

OBJECT OF THE GAME
The object of K-RAZY SHOOT-OUT is to advance your Space Commanders through a series of Alien Control Sectors by destroying the Droids that dwell in each one.
Points are scored for each Droid vaporized and for how fast a successful escape is made from each Sector.

ALIEN CONTROL SECTORS
Alien Control Sectors are created at random with millions of combinations of barriers and escape routes.
Therefore, no two games or, for that matter, Sectors will ever be the same.
There are seven Sector Levels, each one much more challenging to your Space Commander than the last.
You automatically advance from Sector Level to Sector Level as you eliminate all Droids in a given Sector and exit before the Countdown Bar expires.

ALIEN DROIDS
Sector 1 is populated by simple, unarmed Droids that may destroy themselves by colliding into barriers or even into each other.
They increase in number and sophistication, however, as your Space Commanders advance into Sector 2 where the Droids begin to return your laser fire.
By the time you send your Space Commanders into Sector 5 (if you ever reach that level), the Alien Droids move and shoot extremely fast.

PAGE 4
SPACE COMMANDERS
You begin each game with three Space Commanders.
Only one Space Commander at a time can move about a given Sector.
Use the joystick of your controller to maneuver your Space Commander within a Sector.
Move the joystick forward to move your Commander up.
Pull the joystick towards you to move him down.
Move the joystick to the left or right to move your Commander in the same direction.
The two bottom trigger buttons on the sides of your controller control your Space Commander's laser pistol.
To aim and fire the pistol, first press one of the trigger buttons and, while holding it in, move the joystick in the desired direction of fire.
Space Commanders can fire diagonally as well as up and down, and back and forth.
You have an unlimited arsenal of power-pack casings, each one containing 50 laser rounds of ammunition.
You can lose a Commander in one of several ways... if you allow him to run into a barrier... if you allow him to be hit by enemy fire... if you allow him to come in contact with a Droid or with the radioactive debris that follows the elimination of a Droid.
You will be awarded one extra Space Commander every 10,000 points up to a maximum of four Space Commanders in reserve at any one time.

SECTOR COUNTDOWN BAR
The bar above the Sector, at the top of your screen, is the Sector Countdown Bar.
As you start a Sector the bar is green and gradually disappears to the left during play.
Towards the middle, the bar will turn yellow and finally, towards the end, it will turn red.
If you can eliminate all the Droids in a given Sector and escape while the Countdown Bar is either green or yellow, you'll score bonus points.
If the Countdown Bar is red when you escape, no bonus points are scored.
You will then move on to the next Sector Level.
Should time expire (Countdown Bar disappears completely) in a Sector before you've eliminated all the Droids, the game ends.

PAGE 5
SPECIAL FEATURES
- Number of Commanders in Reserve
- Alien Droid
- Radioactive Debris
- Space Commander
- Sector Countdown Bar

Chickening Out: If your Space Commander chickens out and exits a Sector before all Droids are eliminated, you'll be obliged to replay up to two Sectors and score no points while doing so.
All replayed Sectors will be completely new in design.

Pause: To pause the game at any point, press the PAUSE key on your controller.
To resume the game, press the PAUSE key again or one of the two triggers on the sides of the controller.

Restart & Reset: Pressing the START key during play will immediately return the game to Sector 1.
Pressing the RESET key will cause the title screen to reappear and will cancel out the high score.

Display:
SCORE 00720
TIME 02.20

RANK & CLASSIFICATION
As you sharpen your mental and physical skills you will advance in Rank and Classification.
The Ranks, in ascending order, are Goon, Rookie, Novice, Gunner, Blaster and Marksman.
Each Rank is divided into five Classifications, 5 being the lowest and 1 the highest.

PAGE 6
SCORING
Your score is displayed at the bottom of the screen throughout the game.
At the end of the game, your total score will appear in a readout along with time used, number of power-pack casings used, your Rank and Classification and the high score.

Droid Point Values:
- Droids shot: 100 points (Sectors 1-3)
- Droids shot: 200 points (Sectors 4-7)
- Droids colliding with barrier or each other: 10 points (All Sectors)
- Droids shooting each other: 50 points (All Sectors)

Bonus Point Values:
- Countdown Bar Color Green: 1,000 points
- Countdown Bar Color Yellow: 300 points
- Countdown Bar Color Red: No points

STRATEGY HINTS
1. Maneuver the Droids into barriers.
Use your Space Commander as a decoy between two Droids and retreat in time to cause them to shoot each other.
Aim carefully and avoid those near misses between the Droids' legs or over their shoulders.
2. Watch your Space Commander; he'll turn green when there are six or less Droids remaining in a Sector.
3. Avoid lingering around the perimeters of the Sector.
This is the area where the Droids first materialize, which may be right on top of you if you're not careful.
4. If you've successfully eliminated all but the last one or two Droids in a Sector and are then yourself destroyed, a reserve Commander will appear in the Sector, as usual, but no Droids will confront him.
This is due to the basic Droid philosophy, "If we can't face him with at least three to one odds, forget it."

PAGE 7
CBS Electronics VIDEO GAME CARTRIDGE LIMITED NINETY DAY WARRANTY
CBS Inc. ("CBS") warrants to the original consumer purchaser of this CBS Electronics cartridge for a period of ninety days from the date of purchase that it is free from any defects in materials or workmanship.
If any such defect is discovered within the warranty period, CBS will repair or replace the cartridge, at its option, free of charge on receipt of the cartridge with proof of date of purchase, postage paid, at: CBS Electronics, 601 Doremus Avenue, Newark, NJ 07105.
In the event that your cartridge is replaced, the replacement will be continued on the original warranty for the balance of its term or for 30 days, whichever is longer.
This warranty is limited to the electronic circuitry and mechanical parts originally provided by CBS and is not applicable to normal wear and tear.
This warranty shall not apply to defects arising from abuse, unreasonable use, mistreatment or neglect.
ANY APPLICABLE IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, ARE HEREBY LIMITED TO NINETY DAYS FROM THE DATE OF PURCHASE.
CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM A BREACH OF ANY APPLICABLE EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARE HEREBY EXCLUDED.
Some states do not allow limitations on how long an implied warranty lasts or do not allow the exclusion or limitations of incidental or consequential damages, so the above limitations or exclusions may not apply to you.
This warranty gives you specific legal rights and you may also have other rights which vary from state to state.

PAGE 8
CBS Toys, A Division of CBS Inc., Newark, NJ 07105
2L-2615-0000